WSJ News Exclusive | Pence Says U.S. Will Be Prepared if Second Coronavirus Wave Hits
Vice President Mike Pence said the White House hopes the coronavirus epidemic can be ?largely in the past? by early June.

Mr. Pence didn?t make a firm prediction about when the U.S. economy can be fully reopened. But he said ?the trend lines continue to be encouraging,? including in some of the country?s most hard-hit cities, and offered a generally ambitious timeline for revival of normal activities.

?We truly do believe as we move forward, with responsibly beginning to reopen the economy in state after state around the country, that by early June, we could be at a place where this coronavirus epidemic is largely in the past,? Mr. Pence said in an interview Wednesday with ?The Journal,? a Gimlet and Wall Street Journal podcast.

Mr. Pence also said that he hopes both political parties will be able to hold national conventions as planned in August and that ?Americans are going to be able to enjoy a good summer.? Earlier this month, Democrats announced they were delaying their convention from July until mid-August because of uncertainties created by the spread of the coronavirus. The Republican convention is scheduled for later in August.

In the podcast interview, Mr. Pence continued to voice concern over the dangers and lethality of the coronavirus outbreak, but also expressed new optimism on the pace of health and economic recovery. He said the nation is ?past the peak? and didn?t discourage governors such as Brian Kemp of Georgia from moving to reopen their economies even though they haven?t yet met the benchmarks for control of the virus recommended by the White House task force Mr. Pence leads.

Mr. Kemp?s move has been questioned by critics, including the mayor of Atlanta, who have said it is premature and risks a new spread of the virus. But Mr. Pence said there is evidence of a flattening of the line of new virus cases in Atlanta, as well as in a handful of other major cities around the nation, including New Orleans, Detroit, Houston and New York City.

?The president has the view that we?ve given those governors our very best counsel,? Mr. Pence said. ?We want to defer to the governors about what they deem to be most appropriate.? He appeared, though, to encourage governors to consider varying their reopening plans from area to area within states, saying the federal government?s tracking of the disease allows state leaders to make changes and adjustments by individual communities.

Mr. Pence also said that the country will be ?in a much, much better place? later this year if a second surge of coronavirus cases hits in the winter, as some health experts predict.

?By this spring, we expect to have new medicines known as therapeutics, which will bring a much needed relief to people that are struggling with the coronavirus,? Mr. Pence said. ?And of course, we?re working literally around the clock on new vaccines, which we?ll continue to see developed on a number of platforms that could well be available shortly after the first of the year.?

He was responding to a Washington Post article that quoted Dr. Robert Redfield, the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, warning that a second wave of coronavirus cases might be ?more difficult? than the initial wave. Dr. Redfield was referring specifically to the possibility that a second spike in coronavirus infections would coincide with the onset of seasonal flu, thereby straining health resources.


As a $484 billion aid package for small businesses moves to the House, the administration weighs helping oil companies; Wisconsin?s Republicans sue over the stay-at-home order; Netflix posts breakneck subscriber growth. WSJ?s Jason Bellini has the latest on the pandemic. Photo: Mark Felix/AFP
Speaking at a White House press coronavirus briefing Wednesday, Mr. Redfield sought to clarify his remarks, saying: ?I didn?t say this was going to be worse, I said it was going to be more complex or more difficult and potentially more complicated.? He said his goal was to push more people to get a flu vaccine.

Mr. Pence said Dr. Redfield ?assured me that he did not say the coronavirus would be worse? later on. In addition to more therapeutic drugs to treat victims, Mr. Pence said, the country by the fall will have done ?an enormous volume of testing? to identify victims, and many Americans will have developed ?a significant amount of immunity? after having contracted the virus earlier.

The vice president also suggested tensions will continue with China over its handling of the new coronavirus, which was first identified there. He said Mr. Trump is unhappy with both China and the World Health Organization over ?the lack of transparency, the lack of candor, the lack of advance notice.?