Coronavirus Outbreak Eases in New York as U.S. Protesters Push Against Restrictions
The coronavirus pandemic in America?s hardest-hit state is starting to wane, its governor said, as more U.S. protesters rallied to lift social-distancing restrictions.

New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said at news conference Saturday the number of people currently hospitalized in the state for Covid-19 was below 17,000 compared with about 18,000 at its peak.

With more than 235,000 reported coronavirus cases, New York accounts for about one-third of all infections in the U.S., according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. It has nearly three times as many as the No. 2 state, New Jersey, despite a population just over twice as large.

But the average person with Covid-19 in New York now infects 0.9 other people, compared with 1.4 at the height of the outbreak, according to Mr. Cuomo, indicating that the virus?s spread is slowing.

?You could argue that we are past the plateau and we are starting to descend,? the governor said.

He added, however, that 2,000 people testing positive for Covid-19 were admitted to New York hospitals on Friday, which is about the same number as in late March when the health crisis was intensifying. ?Happy days are not here again,? Mr. Cuomo said.

Reported coronavirus infections in the U.S. now exceed nearly one-third of the 2.27 million cases world-wide, according to Johns Hopkins data, which experts have said likely undercounts the true extent of the pandemic. The nation?s reported death toll is nearly 38,000, while the number of global deaths has surpassed 157,000.

The reported U.S. infection and death counts are higher than in any other country, though on a per-capita basis, they lag behind the hardest-hit European nations, Spain and Italy, according to Johns Hopkins. Some European countries, along with China and Iran, are ahead of the U.S. in beginning to reopen after a month or longer on lockdown. Meanwhile, some Asian nations are puzzled by a resurgence of cases.

In Texas and Maryland, protesters rallied in capital cities Saturday, calling on legislators to relax restrictions designed to reduce the spread of the virus. The rally in Austin was organized by InfoWars, a controversial right-wing website that has promoted conspiracy theories.

At one point, the crowd began chanting ?fire Fauci,? referring to Dr. Anthony Fauci, the Trump administration?s top infectious-disease expert who has been a strong advocate of social-distancing efforts.

Texas Gov. Greg Abbott has already set the nation?s second-largest state on a path to reopening, saying that shopping, hiking and some medical procedures may restart as soon as next week.

Reopen Maryland, the group behind the planned protest in that state?s capital of Annapolis, called on participants to follow all laws, including Covid-19 restrictions.

Protesters in some other states haven?t followed social-distancing guidelines.

Videos of the Annapolis protest on social media showed a line of honking cars weaving their way through the streets of the city as passengers waved American flags out their windows.

There were similar rallies Saturday in Indianapolis, Carson City, Nev., and Brookfield, Wis., according to local media and online videos.

The protests come after President Trump on Friday used Twitter to signal support for previous rallies against virus-containment measures in three other state capitals. Those states?Michigan, Minnesota and Virginia?all have Democratic governors, while Mr. Abbott and Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan are Republicans. Mr. Trump said that day he wasn?t advocating for states to fully lift their stay-at-home orders and said governors should make such decisions on their own timetables.

The president on Saturday said some of the governors have gone too far with restrictions. ?I just think that some of the governors have gotten carried away,? he told reporters at the White House, noting the protests in some states. ?I really believe somebody sitting in a boat in a lake should be OK.?

Vermont and Minnesota also are easing some restrictions. In Washington state, where the virus was first detected in the U.S. and triggered a three-week shutdown, Boeing Co. said it would resume limited production of its wide-body commercial jetliners on Monday.

Other governors, including Democrat Gavin Newsom of California, have said restrictions won?t be lifted until they had greater capacity to test people for the virus and could respond more quickly to fresh outbreaks.

Mr. Newsom on Saturday said California had secured nearly 11,000 hotel rooms in six counties for homeless people infected with Covid-19 and others who might have been exposed to the virus. California has the largest homeless population in the U.S., and experts have warned they are particularly vulnerable to coronavirus infections for reasons including a high incidence of underlying conditions and lack of access to hygiene facilities and supplies.

Motel 6, the motel chain, also will provide an additional 5,025 rooms statewide, Mr. Newsom said.

Also Saturday, Canada and the U.S. agreed to extend their ban on nonessential travel between the two countries for another 30 days.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said the travel ban, which doesn?t apply to commercial trade and had been set to expire on April 21, has been critical in containing the spread of the virus.

Overseas, German car maker Volkswagen AG plans to restart car plants across Europe next week, with a new set of guidelines for workers aimed at minimizing new infections. Gardening and DIY stores have reopened in Belgium. On Saturday, Iran allowed what it called low-risk businesses to resume operations in Tehran, the capital, following a similar reopening in other parts of the country last weekend.