Facebook Inc. FB 6.72% is banning posts and groups promoting anti-lockdown protests that don?t comply with government health directives, as organizers of those events seek to recruit new members on social media.

Dozens of protests have taken place in recent days, with participants complaining of shelter-in-place restrictions and pushing for state governments to allow more freedom to return to normal activities as the coronavirus pandemic plays out. Most of the events have been relatively small, but have drawn outsize attention on social media as the debate about when and how to reopen the economy becomes increasingly political.

Facebook groups, some with tens of thousands of members and some using near-identical language in their descriptions, have popped up in states like Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania. The groups raise concerns about what they see as overly restrictive orders imposed by state governors.

Coronavirus Update: Small-Business Aid Deal, Americans Fear Early Restriction Lift
The Treasury and Democrats say they are close on a new rescue deal for small businesses, debate over lockdowns ramps up as the U.S. coronavirus death toll tops 40,000, and what to expect from earnings this week. WSJ?s Jason Bellini has the latest on the pandemic. Photo: David Poller/Zuma Press
Facebook?s prohibition doesn?t explicitly target posts promoting anti-lockdown protests; rather the company said it is barring content that advocates for in-person gatherings that don?t follow government health guidance. A spokeswoman for the social media giant said it is also taking down claims designed to discourage treatment for coronavirus infection or taking appropriate precautions against its spread.

Facebook removed content related to anti-lockdown protests planned in California, New Jersey and Nebraska.

?Unless government prohibits the event during this time, we allow it to be organized on Facebook,? the spokeswoman said in a statement. ?For this same reason, events that defy government?s guidance on social distancing aren?t allowed on Facebook.?
Michigan has emerged as the epicenter of the protests, with critics focusing their frustration on the state?s Democratic governor, Gretchen Whitmer, who has imposed some of the most stringent coronavirus restrictions in the country. Ms. Whitmer has put in place measures limiting the number of shoppers in stores and closing off some sections of stores, including those for gardening supplies, a move that prompted condemnation from the state?s greenhouse industry.

Two right-leaning groups?the Michigan Conservative Coalition and the Michigan Freedom Fund?created a Facebook event called ?Operation Gridlock? to protest the state?s restrictions. The April 15 event in Lansing, Mich., drew more than 3,000 protesters, many in cars to bring traffic to a standstill. Some participants left their cars and huddled in groups in violation of social-distancing rules.

Facebook?s decision to ban content that promotes events that risk defying health restrictions is part of a series of moves it has made to limit the spread of what it sees as misinformation and harmful content related to the pandemic. Some of the content also attempts to erode trust in public-health authorities, who say social distancing rules have slowed the spread of the virus and reduced the number of deaths attributable to it.