Some States Look to Reopen, but Others Want More Testing First
U.S. governors are pursuing different routes to restart local economies hit by the coronavirus pandemic, with several Southern leaders moving to reopen businesses while others voice concern about taking such steps without more robust testing capacity.

In Georgia, gyms, bowling alleys, barbers and other nonessential businesses were preparing to open as early as Friday, even as some mayors pushed back against the governor?s new order. Some retailers in South Carolina were already open, and affected businesses in most Tennessee counties will be able to open their doors on May 1.

Governors in Florida, Alabama and Mississippi were looking to task forces to guide their next steps. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said any eventual reopening of his state would likely vary by region, as some are more hard-hit than others. New York and states including California, Pennsylvania and Massachusetts already extended stay-at-home orders this month. Many are also working to expand testing and contact-tracing teams.
Many officials have warned that reopening too early without extensive testing could lead to a surge in new infections. Public-health experts have asked state leaders to heed reopening guidelines including a decline in infection rates for at least 14 days, a strong testing regime and adequate health-care capacity. Governors in the Northeast, Midwest and West Coast have formed regional pacts to coordinate reopening plans.

The bipartisan National Governors Association was scheduled to release its own plan Wednesday to reopen the economy, and it offers a cautionary note among a number of recommendations.

?Opening prematurely?or opening without the tools in place to rapidly identify and stop the spread of the virus?could send states back into crisis mode, push health systems past capacity, and force states back into strict social distancing measures,? the report states. ?This scenario would repeat the negative economic consequences of pandemic response and reduce public confidence, further deepening a recession and protracting economic recovery.?

The 38-page Roadmap to Recovery says governors should continue to request the federal government ?rapidly build testing capacity and coordinate distribution to states.?

Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, met Tuesday with President Trump to discuss testing, a subject of some ongoing tension between the two men. In a subsequent interview on MSNBC, Mr. Cuomo said the meeting had been productive. He said he requested a meeting because he wanted to get the testing issue ?ironed out.?
Mr. Cuomo said he and Mr. Trump agreed to work together in New York to double the average rate of daily testing to 40,000. New York has more than 256,000 cases of the new coronavirus, nearly a third of the cases nationwide.

President Trump has faced increasing criticism over insufficient testing and has heard concerns from business executives and state leaders on conference calls. He has pushed back to say testing is the role of the states, but said the federal government would work with governors.

Reported cases in the U.S., the world?s hardest-hit country, surpassed 820,000 Tuesday, with 44,845 deaths from the Covid-19 disease caused by the virus, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins University. Globally, more than 2.5 million are confirmed, and the death toll passed 175,000, although experts say official figures understate the extent of the pandemic.

Between 8 p.m. Monday and the same time Tuesday, 2,751 Americans died from Covid-19, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of Johns Hopkins data, making it the third-deadliest day of the pandemic for the country. Only Thursday and Friday of last week saw higher death tolls from the disease, according to the Journal?s analysis.

In the U.S., public-health authorities have credited statewide stay-at-home policies with helping slow infection rates. The measures have become contentious, however, with lawsuits filed and protests in some states.

Wisconsin?s Republican-controlled legislature filed Tuesday for an injunction against the coronavirus-related lockdown ordered by the administration of Democratic Gov. Tony Evers. The legislature argues that the order failed to follow proper procedures and didn?t seek its input. Republican leaders have argued that the state should ease restrictions in rural counties where few cases of coronavirus have been reported.

Attorney General William Barr said Tuesday that the Justice Department would consider supporting people and groups who allege their rights have been violated by the pandemic policies.
President Trump says he will temporarily suspend immigration to protect American jobs, states are quickly burning through cash for unemployment payments, and global markets drop after U.S. oil plunged below zero for the first time. WSJ?s Jason Bellini has the latest on the pandemic.
?These are very, very burdensome impingements on liberty, and we adopted them, we have to remember, for the limited purpose of slowing down the spread, that is, bending the curve. We didn?t adopt them as the comprehensive way of dealing with this disease,? Mr. Barr told radio host Hugh Hewitt.

He said some policies, such as stay-home orders, had been justified. But he said the department could file statements of interest in some lawsuits where it sees fit, a move that carries no force of law but serves as a powerful show of the federal government?s support.

Virus-containment measures around the globe have disrupted trade, grounded planes and stopped billions of people from driving to work. A crash in global oil prices deepened Tuesday, reflecting a collapse in demand so thorough that there is inadequate space to store the world?s excess barrels of crude. The turmoil hit stock prices, with U.S. stocks following other markets lower.

More than 22 million Americans sought jobless aid during the first month in which shutdowns became widespread. Job losses are also rising in Europe as governments race to deliver programs that pay businesses to hold on to workers as lockdowns drain their revenues.

On Tuesday, the Senate passed a relief package that delivers more than $480 billion in aid to small businesses and hospitals. The bill, passed by a voice vote, now goes to the House for a vote, expected on Thursday.

In Florida, Republican Gov. Ron DeSantis created a task force to provide recommendations by the end of the week on how to reopen the state in a way that rekindles economic activity but doesn?t trigger a new wave of infections. Composed mostly of corporate executives and Republican elected officials, the group convened for the first time by phone Monday and is scheduled to continue discussions daily to develop the proposals. Local officials in some parts of the state have been taking steps toward loosening restrictions. Beaches in Duval County, home to Jacksonville, were reopened Friday for walking and exercise, but not sunbathing. Miami-Dade County Mayor Carlos Gimenez held a virtual town hall Monday to discuss plans to reopen public spaces like parks and marinas.