The shutdowns to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus have now stretched longer than a month. Despite the economic cost and emotional toll, Americans have heeded orders and practiced social distancing to ensure hospitals aren?t overwhelmed. But the public?s patience won?t last forever, and it is most likely to fray when officials impose arbitrary restrictions that defy common sense.

A case in point is Michigan, where thousands gathered in the state capital this week to protest sweeping restrictions issued by Governor Gretchen Whitmer. Under her April 9 executive order, stores that remain open must cordon off their furniture, garden supplies and paint, and must refrain from advertising anything but groceries, medicine and basic household supplies. Ms. Whitmer permits canoeing and sailing but not motor-boating or jet-skiing. Michiganders can get their oil changed but ?in general? not their bikes fixed.

On Wednesday thousands drove to Lansing to jam traffic, honk horns and wave posters from car windows, in what the Detroit News called ?one of the largest protests at the state Capitol in a decade.?

The majority remained safely in their vehicles. But instead of at least acknowledging her constituents? concerns, Governor Whitmer focused on the few who left their cars, accusing the protesters of jeopardizing public health and threatening that they ?may have just created a need to lengthen? her emergency measures. In North Carolina, the Raleigh police department infuriated the public when, after a smaller protest there this week, it tweeted that ?protesting is a non-essential activity.?

As the closures and isolation extend into a second month, along with increasing economic harm, acts of civil disobedience may increase. Efforts to organize protests are underway in several other states, and police have busted speakeasies in New York and California.

Emergency measures at the outset of the crisis have helped forestall a public-health catastrophe. But laid-off workers are worried about the economic catastrophe. What they want from political leaders is not Governor Whitmer?s sweeping diktats on virtually every aspect of daily life but a more substantive explanation of the rationale for these restrictions and under what circumstances they will end.