Trump Signals He Backs Protests to End Safety Guidelines
In a series of tweets on Friday, Mr. Trump highlighted three states?Michigan, Minnesota and Virginia?that have Democratic governors and where protests, organized in part by conservative groups, have taken aim at social-distancing measures. The U.S. death toll from the virus climbed to more than 34,000 Friday, with reported cases reaching more than 684,000, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.

?LIBERATE MINNESOTA!? Mr. Trump wrote, using similar language about the other states.

Mr. Trump has shifted his stance several times this past week on who is ultimately responsible for the coronavirus response, first saying he would make the call on reopening the country, but then deferring to the states.

The Latest on the Coronavirus
Confirmed cases world-wide have passed 2.2 million, and deaths have topped 150,000, according to data from Johns Hopkins University.
China revised up its official coronavirus death toll by almost 40% to 4,632.
Prominent public-health doctors have said that even as the U.S. builds its capacity to test for cases of the virus, far more testing is needed before the U.S. should lift stay-at-home restrictions. Mr. Trump was told by several business executives at the White House this past week that before the public would be confident enough to engage in economic activity, his administration needed to dramatically increase the availability of coronavirus testing, which they called inadequate.

Mr. Trump on Friday announced plans to expand nationwide testing, stating at the daily White House briefing that his administration was sending 5.5 million testing swabs to states in the coming weeks. Governors, business executives and lawmakers have all called on the president to expand testing before reopening the country.

?We have to get even better,? Mr. Trump said during the Friday briefing, even as he put the onus on governors to tap into what he characterized as ?a tremendous amount of unused [testing] capacity.?

?The governors are responsible for testing,? said Mr. Trump, who once again defended his administration?s response to the pandemic. ?Following the announcement of our reopening guidelines, there have been some very partisan voices in the media and politics who have spread false and misleading information about our testing capacities.?

?I think the surge seems to be over,? Mr. Trump added.

Mr. Trump estimated that the nation?s death toll will reach 60,000 to 65,000.


Medical workers take a break at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, N.Y. Photo: Caitlin Ochs/Reuters
Between 8 p.m. Thursday and the same time Friday, 3,856 people in the U.S. died from Covid-19, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of data from Johns Hopkins University. That was the second-highest number of deaths recorded in a day, bringing the nation?s total deaths to 36,773. The highest number of deaths was recorded on Thursday, when 4,591 died, according to the data. There were 31,905 new cases of the disease reported in the U.S. on Friday.

?You?re going to call your own shots,? Mr. Trump told governors on a Thursday afternoon videoconference, according to a recording reviewed by The Wall Street Journal.

During a Friday afternoon call between Vice President Mike Pence and Senate Democrats, Sen. Tim Kaine (D., Va.) brought up Mr. Trump?s tweets and accused the president of inciting division in the middle of a global pandemic, according to a person familiar with the call.

Mr. Pence said the administration is working respectfully with governors, the person said, and Mr. Kaine responded that the tweets weren?t respectful. A spokeswoman for Mr. Pence didn?t respond to a request for comment.

Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam, responding to the president?s tweets, told reporters Friday that he was ?fighting a biological war. I do not have time to involve myself in Twitter wars.?

Mr. Trump said during the Friday briefing that he isn?t advocating that the states fully lift their stay-at-home bans, but took issue with measures that he said are too restrictive. He didn?t specify which provisions he opposed, aside from raising concerns about the Second Amendment.

Asked if he is concerned that the protests could spread the virus, Mr. Trump said: ?These are people expressing their views. They seem to be very responsible people to me. They?ve been treated a little bit rough.?