Wisconsin Legislature Files Suit Over Governor?s Lockdown Order
Wisconsin?s Republican-dominated legislature filed Tuesday for an injunction against the coronavirus-related lockdown ordered by the administration of Democratic Gov. Tony Evers.

The move comes amid growing battles over efforts to slow the spread of the virus through restrictions on many business activities that are playing out in protests outside state capitols and tweets by President Trump.

The Wisconsin injunction targets an order by Department of Health Services Secretary Andrea Palm, which closed many businesses and ordered Wisconsinites to stay at home through May 26.

The legislature argues that the order failed to follow proper procedures and didn?t seek any input from the state?s lawmaking body. Republican leaders have argued that the state should ease restrictions in rural counties where few cases of coronavirus have been reported.

As a $484 billion aid package for small businesses moves to the House, the administration weighs helping oil companies; Wisconsin?s Republicans sue over the stay-at-home order; Netflix posts breakneck subscriber growth. WSJ?s Jason Bellini has the latest on the pandemic. Photo: Mark Felix / AFP
?Purporting to act under color of State law, an unelected, unconfirmed cabinet secretary has laid claim to a suite of czar-like powers?unlimited in scope and indefinite in duration?over the people of Wisconsin,? according to the complaint file with the state Supreme Court.

Evers administration officials say the stay-at-home order has slowed the spread of infection and prevented deaths. As of Tuesday, the state had 4,620 confirmed cases and 242 deaths.

On Tuesday evening, Gov. Evers responded to the Republican lawsuit in a flurry of tweets, calling the action a disservice to Wisconsin voters and lacking compassion. ?Apparently, instead of having us act quickly and decisively to respond to a crisis, Republicans would rather have us jump through hoop after hoop and ask for their permission to save lives,? he said in one tweet. ?Folks, we don?t have time. COVID-19 will not wait.?

The Wisconsin Democratic Party said in a tweet, ?Let?s be clear about one thing. If Republicans are successful, people will die.?

Wisconsin, a traditional presidential battleground state, has been sharply divided along partisan lines for years. When Mr. Evers was elected in 2018, the lame-duck session of the GOP-dominated legislature voted to curtail his powers. A battle over the move was ultimately won by the legislature, with the backing of the conservative-dominated Supreme Court.

Since the secretary?s order can be extended as currently framed, the legislature argues that it could go on indefinitely, adding in the complaint: ?By the time the Secretary sees fit to lift her decree (be it in five weeks or eight months), many Wisconsinites will have lost their jobs, and many companies will have gone under, to say nothing of the Order?s countless other downstream societal effects. Our State will be in shambles.?

The filing with the state Supreme Court seeks an injunction of the current stay-at-home order, with a six-day stay, to allow the Health Department to reframe its order in language that would be reviewable by the legislature, effectively giving lawmakers say over when the state would begin to reopen for business.

The Wisconsin Supreme Court late Tuesday gave administration officials one week to respond to the filing by the legislature.

On Monday, Mr. Evers outlined his plans for reopening the state, including waiting for two weeks of falling cases, as recommended by the White House last week.

Earlier in April, the legislature successfully challenged a move by Mr. Evers to stop in-person voting for the state?s presidential primary to prevent spread of the virus.
